																		AWS-Amazon Web Service 
																		======================
																		
AWS components
---------------

Storage
-------

EBS(Elastic Block Store): Virtual disk used in EC2 instance.

S3(Simple Storage Services):It is virtual disk to store data.

Glacier: To store archive file that are not required for everyday usage.

EFS(elastic File service): File base storage.Can share the volume with multiple servers.

Storage Gateway :  Connect S3 to your own data centre.	

Databases
---------

RDS(Relatinal Database Services)

DynamoDB: Non relational database.

Redshift :Data warehousing solution.

Elasticache:

Migration
---------

Snowball

DMS(Database Migration Service) : Migrate databse from traditinal way to AWS and from one region to another as well.No downtime required.

SMS(Server Migration Service):  Shift Vm running on the primises to AWS cloud.

Analytics
----------

Athena : Allows you to run sql queries.

EMA(Elastic Map Reduce)

Cloud Search

Elastic Search

Kinesis: Way of streaming and analysing real time data.

Data Pipeline : Allows to move data from one place to another.

Quick Sight : Business analytic tool

Security & Identity
-------------------

IAM(Identity Acess Management)

Inspector:Agnet installed on VMs will report security issues.

Cerificate Manger: Provide free SSL certificate

Directory service : Way of using active directory.

WAF (Web Application Firewall) : Application level firewall protection.

Artifacts : Where you get your documentation in AWS.


Management Tools
----------------

Cloud Watch : Used to monitor performance,basicaly EC2 components

Cloud Formation:Way of turning infrastructure into code

Cloud Trail : Audting changes to your AWS enviornment.

Opsworks: Way of automating deployment using cheff

Config : Automatically monitor aws envirnment and reports warning when specific configuration breaks.

Service Catalog:Allows to define what aws services need to authorised to use in your environment.

Trusted advisor: Automated way of scanning your enviornment and  giving tips.

Application Services
--------------------

Step Functions : Way of visualazing what is going inside your application.

SWF(Simple Workforce Service) : Way of cordinating both automated task and humanly task.

API Gateway : Is a door it allows you to create,publish,maintain,monitor and secure APIs.

AppStream: Streaming desktop applications to users.

Elastic Transcoder:Basically changes to video format to suit all different devices.


Developer tools
---------------

Code Commit: It is basically git hub to store your code.

CodeBuild: Way of compailing your code.

CodeDeploy: Way of deploying your code in EC2 instanaces.

CodePipeline: Track diffrent versions of code.(Like subversion)

Moble services
--------------

MobileHub:Add, configure and design feature of mobile app

Cognito: Signup and signin in to apps using social identity credential.

Device Farm:Testing your apps on different physical devices.

Mobile analytics: Way of analysing your mobile data.

PinPoint:

Business Productivity
---------------------

WorkDocs:Way of securely storing your documents.

WorkMail:Exchnage of AWS.

Internet Of Things(IOT)
----------------------



Desktop & App Streaming
------------------------

WorkSpaces:is VDI

AppStream2.0 :Way of streaming desktop applications to users.

Artificial Intelligence
-----------------------

Alexa :Amazon voice service.

Polly:

Machine Learning

Rekognition:Facial rekognition.

Messaging
---------

SNS:

SQS:

SEM(Simple Email Service):


IAM---Identity Access Mangement
----

Users:End users

Groups : A collection of users have same permission.

Role : You can create a role and assign them to aws resources.	

Policy: A documents that defines one or more permissions.

S3-Simple Storage Service.
--
It is object base storage not for run opeating system(Block base staorage).

It allows you to upload the files.Once you upload the files to S3 ,you will receive a HTTP 200 code if the upload was successful.

Fies size can be store from 0B to 5TB.

Parts of S3

Key-This is is simply the name of the object.

Value-This is simply the data and it is made up of a sequence of  bytes.

Version Id -Important for versioning.

Metadata-Data about the data you are storing.

Subresources-Access Control List and torrent.

Different Storage tiers

S3-It is 99.99% availability and 99.999999999% (11*9) durability.

S3-IA(Infrequently Accessed)-The data accessed less frequently but required a rapid access when needded.

Reduces Redundancy Storage(RRS) :Designed to provide 99.99 %durability and 99.99% avilability.

Glacier-Very cheap,but used for data archives only.It takes 3-4 hours to restore from Glacer.

S3 charges:

Storage,requests,Storage manegment pricing,Data transfer pricing and transfer acceleration.

S3 security-


CloudFront CDN-Content Delivery Network:
----------------------------------------

Edge location : This is the location where the content will be chached.This is seperate to an AWS region/avilability zones.

Origin-This is the orgin of all the files that CDN will distribute.This can be either an EC2 instance,S3,Route53 or Elastic Load Balancer.

Distribution-This is the name given the CDN Which consist of a collection of edge locations.


Two type of distributions-

Web distribution-Typically used for websites.

RTMP-For media streaming.

S3-Security and Encryption
----------
-Bucket policied

-Access control lists

Encryption:

In Transit

-SSL/TLS

At Rest

-Server side encryption.
 -S3 manged keys-SSE-S3
 -AWS key management service,managed keys-SSE-KMS
 -Server side encryption with customer provided keys-SSE-C

-Client side encryption: You can encrypt the data and upload to S3.

Storage Gateway : is a software appliance which  will connect from your datacentre to AWS-S3
---------------

Filegateway(NFS)-Flat files,stored directly on S3.

Volumegateway(iSCSI) : Virtual hard disks
-Stoared volume :iSCSI device stoare data locally and will be backed up asynchronously backed up to s3.
-cached volume : Datset stored on S3 and most frequently accessed dats is cached onsite.

Tapegateway(VTL)-Backup and archive solution.

Snowball :AWS import/export disk accelerate moving large amounts of data into and out of AWS clound using portabl storage device for transport.
--------

-Snowball:Petabyte scale data transport solution

-Snowball Edge :100Tb data transfer device ad=nd it having storage and compute capabilities.

-Snowmobile : Massive storage device in the bacl ofa truck having pets and exabyte of data.100PB per snowmobile.










